last mein apne words mein RMI
Software system integration is essential where communication between 
different applications runningon different platform is needed. Suppose a 
system designed for payroll running with Human Resource System. In that 
case employees’ data need to be inserted in both systems. The system 
integration benefits a lot in these cases where data and services needed to
be shared.


Web services are becoming very popular to share data between systems 
over the network and over theinternet as well. In software industry the 
software integration carried same steps as software development and hence 
demands same kind of development procedures and testing.
This ensures the meaningful and clear communication between the systems. 
Systems integration becomes inevitable in Enterprise Systems where the 
whole organization needed to share data and services and give the feel to 
user as one system. The core purpose of integration is to make the systems
communicate and also to make the whole system flexible and expandable

A . Middleware
Independently written software systems need to be integrated in large 
system for example industry, institution, etc. These systems need to agree 
on common method for integration. To get them communicate there is need 
to have something in between them. The middle thing is termed commonly
as middleware.

Miidleware is potrntial ueful tool when building s/w connectores
It is computer s/w that provides services to s/w applications beyond those available from OS

It makes easier for s/w developers to implement communication & i/p / o/p so they can focus on the specific purpose of the applocation


B .Service Oriented Architecture
Service Oriented Architecture (SOA) is the architectural design and pattern 
which is used to provide services to different applications. Its goal is to 
achieve loose coupling between interacting componentsof applications.
Web Services, Corba, Jini, etc are the technologies used to implement
SOA.
Main benefit of SOA is that it can provide the means of communication 
between completely different applications (built in different technologies). 
The services are also completely independent and reusableand the nature of 
reusability provide the less time to market. All the services technologies 
needs to be implemented using the SOA design pattern and need to be 
designed on the basis of SOA to get maximum benefit.
C .Web Services
Web service is the SOA technology with additional requirements of using 
internet protocols (HTTP, FTP,SMTP, etc.) and using XML (Extensible 
Markup Language) for message transmission. [7] These are application 
components which communicate between different applications using open 
protocol. Openprotocol is the web protocol for querying and updating 
information. These components can be used by different kinds of 
applications to exchange information. HTML (HyperText Markup 
Language) and XML are the basics of web service implementation.
D.WSDL (Web Service Descriptive Language)
WSDL is a language to describe web services and providing the link to 
access these web services. It is acting as a publisher in web service 
architecture. It is the XML document which is recommended by W3C(World 
Wide Web Consortium) in 2007. In WSDL XML describes the service and 
the address from where applications can access the service. [8] WSDL 
predecessors were COM and CORBA
E. UDDI (Universal Description, Discovery and Integration)
It is directory service / registry service where applications can register and 
look for web services. It is Platform independent framework. It is acting like 
service register in web service architecture. It uses HTML, XML and DNS 
(Domain Name Server) protocols which enables it to become the directory 
service.It defines the keyword search, categories and classification for an 
application and registers it into business directory. In that way it is making 
the application easier to be approached by the customers online
F. SOAP (Simple Object Access Protocol)
It is a messaging / invoker in web service architecture. It is use to send 
messages in between the serviceand service consumer; and in between 
service consumer and service registry. It used to communicate with web
service. It is a message framework which transfers the information between
sender and
receiver. SOAP doesn’t define the service but defines the mechanisms for messaging. It
binds the client
to the service
G.SOA - A solution to spaghetti architecture
In a fairly medium scale to large software architecture where there is need to 
integrate or communicatebetween different kinds of applications the 
introduction of links can make the architecture messy and it is called 
spaghetti architecture [9]. Figure 4 shows that problem in detail. It makes the 
system less flexible and expandability is the nightmare. Service Oriented 
Architecture (SOA) makes the architecture flexible and expandable.


RMI Remote method Invocation by Ayush
It is an API that allows an object to invokde anotther method that exists in seperate address space 

Client --> RMI --> MAchine B

Machine A can invoke methods of Machine B

RMI working
2 intermediate objects are used for communication b/t cient & server
stub obj and skeleton obj
Diag:

remote mthd       (parameter)  -->  STUB object  ----> internet ---> Skeleton Object (parameter)--> Remote method call on server
call on client 		<------ (return value)							<--(return value)


Goals of RMI
Minimizes complexity of Application
Distributed Garbage Collection


Client --> (invokes method using fetched objs)  --> Server
   \							|
   |							|
   | ------ RMI registry ------------------------------	 
    lookup()		   bind() / rebind() 
fetches the object  		Binds the obj in RMI registry

